To dye a red color one needs to take a large handful
of fine linen and then one takes a half pound of safflower, where those
safflowers need to be bundled in a little linen bag and then one puts
the safflower that are in the little bag in rainwater for six or seven hours
to soak, and now and then turn the little bag in the water.
And when it has soaked long enough one needs to wash the little bag,
without it coming open, as long as the little bag is still red [OR: long enough until the little bag becomes red]
Now, to make the lye, you must take grapevine wood
and burn it to ashes, of which ashes one needs to take
a pot full and one puts them in a kettle with two pots
of rainwater. And leave it thus only a half hour to cook, and then take
the kettle off the fire and let it settle, as the lye must
be clear. And then begin to dye, end then place the little bag
with the safflower in a dish and shake over it a clean
little beer glass half full of lye, shake it over the little bag and 
wash the little bag with it and then wring the little bag
half out, and then add in the whitest linen and once it is wet
then squeeze it out, then take a little dish of vinegar and put that little piece
of linen in the vinegar, about a little glassfull, then squeeze it out, take again the
same little piece of linen that had been in the dye, put it again
in the same dye, squeeze it out thus, and put it again in the
same vinegar, then squeeze it out. Then, throw the vinegar out and put
clean vinegar in the little dish, and then throw the dye out also
Wring the aforesaid little bag out, then take the previous
piece that is still dyed and put it again therein, so then squeeze it
out again and place it again in the vinegar, then squeeze it out again. Then
the piece is red enough. Then, you must take once more another white piece
of linen, and place it in the dye and then again in the vinegar just as
before; and once the dye becomes clear, then throw it out and then lay the
little bag in the dish, then pour another half little glass of lye over the
little bag, and then wring it therewith, wring the little bag half
out, and then begin to dye again in the same manner as before.
And as you notice that there is no more dye coming out and [it runs] clear,
then you must stop dyeing, then you must wash the red linen, 
with some Spanish [i.e., castille] soap, but you must put the soap in a clean
little cloth and then beat the little cloth with the soap there in the water. Thus
must you then wash [it], piece by piece, in a bucket, and then rinse with clean
water. Then wring it out and lay it in a dish and then put 
vinegar over it. Let it stand thus therein for a whole night. Then the next day,
wring it out, and then lay it to dry on a serge, and that
in the dark, and then once it is dry, you must stiffen it with white starch.
You must take a quarter of a pound and then let it become cold.
Then must you thus stiffen linen, and out of one another, put [it] also on a
serge, and that in the dark. Let it dry thus.
Now, to make white roses, so must you take white linen and put
it in the soap water that the red linen was washed in,
and with clear water rinsed, but put it in no vinegar, though
stiffen it as before.